JEAN LEGALL: Good afternoon, ladies and

gentlemen. I'm Jean LeGall. I'm

President of the French Space Agency and

the President elect of the International

Astronautical Federation, and it is my

pleasure to welcome you here at the 67th

International Astronautical Congress.

Elon Musk is founder, C.E.O., and lead

designer of SpaceX. Elon founded SpaceX

in 2002 with the goal of revolutionizing

space technology and ultimately enabling

humans to become a multiplanetary

species, and that's the plan he's going

to lay out for us today.

SpaceX has had a number of firsts

including as the first private company

to deliver cargo to and from the

International Space Station and the

first entity to land a nautical thrust

booster back on land and on ships out at

sea.

Please join me in welcoming Elon Musk.

[APPLAUSE].

ELON MUSK: Thank you. Thank you very

much for having me. I look forward to

talking about the SpaceX Mars

architecture. And what I really want to

achieve here is to make Mars seem

possible, make it seem as though it's

something that we can do in our

lifetimes and that you can go. And is

there really a way that anyone can go if

they wanted to?

I think that's really the important

thing.

So, I mean, first of all, why go

anywhere?

Right?

I think there are really two fundamental

paths. History is going to bifurcate

along two directions. One path is we

stay on Earth forever and then there

will be some eventual extinction event.

I don't have an immediate doomsday

prophecy, but eventually history

suggests there will be some doomsday

event. The alternative is to become a

space-faring civilization and a

multiplanet species, which I hope you

agree that is the right way to go.

Yes?

[APPLAUSE].

That's what we want.

[APPLAUSE].

Yeah. So how do we figure out how to

take you to Mars and create a

self-sustaining city, a city that is not

really an outpost but can become a

planet in its own right and thus we can

become a truly multiplanet species?

You know, sometimes people wonder, Well,

what about other places in the solar

system?

Why Mars?

Well, just to sort of put things into

perspective, this is -- this is what --

this is an actual scale of what the

solar system looks like. So we're

currently in the third little rock from

the left. That's Earth. Yeah, exactly.

And our goal is to go to the fourth rock

on the left. That's Mars. But you can

get a sense for the real scale of the

solar system, how big the sun is and

Jupiter, Neptune, Saturn, Uranus. And

then the little guys on the right are

Pluto and friends.

This sort of helps to see, it's not

quite to scale, but it gives you a

better sense for where things are. So

our options for going to -- for becoming

a multiplanet species within our solar

system are limited. We have, in terms of

nearby options, we've got Venus. But

Venus is a high-pressure -- super

high-pressure hot acid bath. So that

would be a tricky one. Venus is not at

all like the goddess. This is not in no

way similar to the actual goddess.

So it is really difficult to make things

work on Venus.

Mercury is also way too close to the

sun. We could go potentially on to one

of the moons of Jupiter or Saturn, but

those are quite far out, much further

from the sun, a lot harder to get to.

Really, it leaves us with one option if

we want to become a multiplanet

civilization, and that's Mars. We could

conceivably go to our moon, and I have

nothing against going to the moon, but I

think it's challenging to become

multiplanetary on the moon because it's

much smaller than a planet. It doesn't

have any atmosphere. It's not as

resource rich as Mars. It has a 28-day

day, whereas the Mars day is 24 1/2

hours. And in general, Mars is far

better suited to ultimately scale up to

a self-sustaining civilization.

Just to give some comparison between the

two planets, there are actually --

they're remarkably close in a lot of

ways. In fact, we now believe that early

Mars was a lot like Earth. And, in fact,

if we could warm Mars up, we would, once

again, have a thick -- a thick

atmosphere and liquid oceans.

So, where things are right now, Mars is

about half again as far from the sun as

Earth. So it has decent sunlight. It's a

little cold, but we can warm it up. It

has a very helpful atmosphere which, in

the case of Mars being primarily CO2

with some nitrogen and argon and a few

other trace elements, means that we can

grow plants on Mars just by compressing

the atmosphere. And it has nitrogen,

too, which is also very important for

growing plants.

It will be quite fun to be on Mars,

because you will have gravity which is

about 37% that of Earth, so you will be

able to lift heavy things and bound

around and have a lot of fun. And the

day is remarkably close to that of

Earth.

So we just need to change that bottom

row, because currently we have 7 billion

people on Earth and zero on Mars.

So there's been a lot of great work by

NASA and other organizations in early

exploration of Mars and understanding

what Mars is like, where could we land,

what's the composition of the

atmosphere, where is there water, or

ice, we should say. And we need to go

from these early exploration missions to

actually building a city.

The issue that we have today is that if

you look at a Venn diagram, there's no

intersection of sets of people who want

to go and can afford to go. In fact,

right now you cannot go to Mars for

infinite money. Using traditional

methods, you know, if taking sort of a

holistic style approach, an optimistic

cost number would be about $10 billion

per person. For example, the Apollo

program, the cost estimates are

somewhere between $100 billion to $200

billion in current-year dollars, and we

sent 12 people to the surface of the

moon, which was an incredible thing and

I think probably one of the greatest

achievements of humanity.

But that's -- that's a steep price to

pay for a ticket. That's why these

circles only just barely touch. So you

can't create a self-sustaining

civilization if the ticket price is $10

billion a person. What we need is a

closer -- is to move those circles

together. And if we can get the cost of

moving to Mars to be roughly equivalent

to a median house price in the U.S.,

which is around $200,000, then I think

the probability of establishing a

self-sustaining civilization is very

high. I think it would almost certainly

occur -- not everyone would want to go.

In fact, I think a relatively small

number of people from Earth would want

to go. But enough would want to go and

who could afford the trip that it would

happen. And people could get

sponsorship. And I think it gets to the

point where almost anyone, if they saved

up and this was their goal, they could

ultimately save up enough money to buy a

ticket and move to Mars. And Mars would

have labor shortage for a long time so

jobs would not be in short supply.

But it is a bit tricky because we have

to figure out how to improve the cost of

trips to Mars by 5 million percent. So

this is -- this is not easy. I mean,

it's -- and it sounds like virtually

impossible but I think there are ways to

do it. This translates to an improvement

of approximately 4 1/2 orders of

magnitude.

These are the key elements that are

needed in order to achieve the 4 1/2

order of magnitude improvement. Most of

the improvement would come from full

reusability, somewhere between 2 and 2

1/2 orders of magnitude. And then the

other two orders of magnitude would come

from refilling in orbit, propellant

production on Mars and choosing the

right propellant. So I'm going to go

into detail on all of those.

Full reusability is really the super

hard one. It's very difficult to achieve

reusability for even an orbital system,

and that challenge becomes even

substantially greater for a system that

has to go to another planet. But as an

example of the difference between

reusability and expendability in

aircraft -- and you can actually use any

form of transport. You could say a car,

bicycle, horse. If they were single-use,

almost no one would use them. It would

be too expensive. But with frequent

flights, you can take something like an

aircraft that costs $90 million and if

it was single use, you would have to pay

half a million dollars per flight. But

you can actually buy a ticket on

Southwest right now from L.A. to Vegas

for $43, including taxes. So that's -- I

mean, that's a massive improvement.

Right there it's showing a four order of

magnitude improvement.

Now this is harder -- the reusability

doesn't apply quite as much to Mars

because the number of times they can

reuse the spaceship is -- the spaceship

part of the system is less often because

the Earth-Mars rendezvous only occurs

every -- every 26 months.

So you get to use the spaceship part

roughly every two years.

Now, you get to use the booster and the

tanker as frequently as you'd like. And

so it makes -- that's why it makes a lot

of sense to load the spaceship into

orbit with essentially tanks dry and

have it have really quite big tanks that

you then use the booster and tanker to

refill while it's in orbit and maximize

the payload of the spaceships that when

it goes to Mars, you really have a very

large payload capability.

So as I said, refilling in orbit is one

of the essential elements of this.

Without refilling in orbit, you would

have a half order of magnitude impact

roughly on the cost. By "half order of

magnitude," I think the audience mostly

knows, but what that means is each order

of magnitude is a factor of ten. So not

refilling in orbit would mean a 500%,

roughly, increase in the cost per

ticket.

It also allows us to build a smaller

vehicle and lower the development cost,

although this vehicle is quite big. But

it would be much harder to build

something that's five to ten times the

size. And it also reduces the

sensitivity of performance

characteristics of the booster rocket

and tanker. So if there's a shortfall in

the performance of any of the elements,

you can actually make up for it by

having one or two extra refilling trips

to the spaceship. So this is -- it's

very important for reducing the

susceptibility of the system to a

performance shortfall.

And then producing propellants on Mars

is actually also very obviously

important. Again, if we didn't do this,

it would have at least a half order of

magnitude increase in the -- in the cost

of a trip. So 500% increase in the cost

of the trip. And it would be pretty

absurd to try to build a city on Mars if

your spaceships just kept staying on

Mars and not going back to Earth. you

would have this, like, massive graveyard

of ships. You would have to, like, do

something with them. So it really

wouldn't make sense to -- to leave your

spaceships on Mars. You really want to

build a propellant plant on Mars and

send the ships back.

So and Mars happens to work out well for

that because it has a CO2 atmosphere,

it's got water rights in the soil, and

with H2O and CO2 you can produce CH4,

methane, and oxygen, O2.

So picking the right propellant is also

important.

Think of this as maybe there's three

main choices. And they have their

merits, but kerosene or rocket

propellant-grade kerosene which is also

what jets use.

Rockets use a very expensive form of

highly refined form of jet fuel

essentially which is a form of kerosene.

It helps keep the vehicle size small,

but because it's a very specialized form

of jet fuel, it's quite expensive. Your

reusability potential is lower. Very

difficult to make this on Mars, because

there's no oil.

So really quite difficult to make the

propellant on Mars. And then propellant

transfer is pretty good but not great.

Hydrogen, although it has a high

specific impulse, is very expensive,

incredibly difficult to keep from

boiling off because liquid hydrogen is

very close to absolute zero as a liquid.

So the insulation required is

tremendous, and the cost of -- the

energy cost on Mars of producing and

storing hydrogen is very high.

So when we looked at the overall system

optimization, it was clear to us that

methane actually was the clear winner.

So it would require maybe anywhere from

50 to 60% of the energy on Mars to

refill propellants using the propellant

depot. And just the technical challenges

are a lot easier.

So we think -- we think methane is

actually better on just really almost

across the board.

And we started off initially thinking

that hydrogen would make sense, but

ultimately came to the conclusion that

the best way to optimize the cost per

unit mass to Mars and back is to use an

all-methane system, or technically

deep-cryo Methalox.

So those are the four elements that need

to be achieved. So whatever system is

designed, whether by SpaceX or anyone,

we think these are the four features

that need to be addressed in order for

the system to really achieve a low cost

per -- a cost per ton to be of service

on Mars.

This is a simulation about the overall

system.

(Music).

(Video).

[APPLAUSE].

So what you saw there is really quite

close to what we will actually build. It

will look almost exactly what you saw --

like what you saw. So this is not an

artist's impression. The simulation was

actually made from the SpaceX

engineering CAD models. So this is not

-- you know, it's not just, well, this

is what it might look like. This is what

we plan to try to make it look like.

In the video, you got a sense for what

this system mock architecture looks

like. The rocket booster and the

spaceship take off, loads the spaceship

into orbit. The rocket booster then

comes back. It comes back quite quickly,

within about 20 minutes. And so it can

actually launch the tanker version of

the spacecraft, which is essentially the

same as the -- as the spaceship but

filling up the unpressurized and

pressurized cargo areas with propellant

tanks. So they look almost identical.

This also helps slow the development

cost, which obviously will not be small.

And then the propellant tanker goes up.

It will go -- actually, it will go up

multiple times, anywhere from three to

five times, to fill the tanks of the

spaceship in orbit. And then once the

spaceship is -- the tanks are full, the

cargo has been transferred, and we reach

the Mars rendezvous timing, which as I

mentioned is roughly every 26 months,

that's when the ship would depart.

Now, over time there would be many

spaceships. You would ultimately have, I

think, upwards of a thousand or more

spaceships waiting in orbit. And so the

Mars colonial fleet would depart en

masse. Kind of like Battlestar

Galactica, if you have seen that thing.

Good show. So it's a bit like that.

But it actually makes sense to load the

spaceships into orbit because you have

got two years to do so and then make

frequent use of the booster and the

tanker to get really heavy reuse out of

those. And then with the spaceship you

get less reuse because you have to

prepare for how long is it going to

last?

Well, maybe 30 years. So that might be

12 to maybe 15 flights with the

spaceship at most. So you really want to

maximize the cargo of the spaceship and

use the booster and the tanker a lot.

So the ship goes to Mars, gets

replenished, and then returns to Earth.

So going into some of the details of the

vehicle design and performance -- and

I'm going to gloss over -- I'll only

talk a little bit about the technical

details in the actual presentation, and

then I'll leave the detailed technical

questions to the Q and A that follows.

This is to give you a sense of size.

It's quite big.

(Laughter).

[APPLAUSE].

The funny thing is in the long-term, the

ships will be even bigger than this.

This will be relatively small compared

to the Mars interplanetary ships of the

future. But it kind of needs to be about

this size because in order to fit a

hundred people or thereabouts in the

pressurized section plus carry the

luggage and all of the unpressurized

cargo to build propellant plants and

build everything from iron foundries to

pizza joints to you name it, we need to

carry a lot of cargo.

So it really needs to be roughly on this

sort of magnitude, because if we say

like the -- that same amount of

threshold for a self-sustaining city on

Mars for civilization would be a million

people. If you only go every two years,

if you have a hundred people per ship,

that's 10,000 trips. So I think at least

a hundred people per trip is the right

order of magnitude, and I think we may

actually end up expanding the crew

section and ultimately taking more like

200 or more people per flight in order

to reduce the cost per person.

But it's -- you know

10,000 flights is a lot of flights. So

you really want ultimately on the order

of a thousand ships. It will take a

while to build up to a thousand ships.

And so I think if you say, When would we

reach that million-person threshold?

From the point at which the first ship

goes to Mars, it's probably somewhere

between 20 to 50 total Mars rendezvous.

So it's probably somewhere between maybe

40 to 100 years to achieve a fully

self-sustaining civilization on Mars.

So that's sort of the cross-section of

the ship. In some way, it's not that

complicated, really. It's made primarily

of an advanced carbon fiber. The carbon

fiber part is tricky when dealing with

deep cryogens and trying to achieve both

liquid and gas impermeability and not

have gaps occur due to cracking or

pressurization that would make the

carbon fiber leaky.

So this is a fairly significant

technical challenge, to make deep and

cryogenic tanks out of carbon fiber. And

it's only recently that we think the

carbon fiber technology has gotten to

the point where we can actually do this

without having to create a liner, some

sort of metal liner, quad liner on the

inside of the tanks, which would add

mass and complexity.

It's particularly tricky for the hot

gaseous oxygen pressurization.

So this is designed to be autogenously

pressurized, which means that the fuel

and the oxygen, we gasify them through

heat exchanges in the engine and use

that to pressurize the tanks. So we will

gasify the methane and use that to

pressurize the fuel tank. Gasify the

oxygen. Use that to pressurize the

oxygen tank.

This is a much simpler system than what

we have with Falcon 9, where we use

helium for pressurization and we use

nitrogen for gas thrusters. In this

case, we would autogenously pressurize

and then use gaseous methane and oxygen

for the control thrusters.

So really, you only need two ingredients

for this, as opposed to four in the case

of Falcon 9 and actually five if you

consider the ignition liquid. It's sort

of a complicated liquid to ignite the

engines.

That isn't very usable. In this case we

would use spark ignition.

So this gives you a sense of vehicles by

performance, sort of current and

historic. I don't know if you can

actually read that. But in expandable

mode, the vehicle, of course, we are

proposing would do about 550 tons and

about 300 tons in reusable mode. That

compares to satisfy max capability of

135 tons. But I think this really gives

a better sense of things.

The white bars show the performance of

the vehicle; in other words, the

payload-to-orbit of the vehicle. So you

can see essentially what it represents

is what's the size efficiency of the

vehicle. And most rockets, including

ours -- ours as they're currently flying

-- the performance bar is only a small

percentage of the actual size of the

rocket.

But with the interplanetary system which

we will initially use for Mars, we've

been able to -- or we believe massively

improve the design performance. So it's

the first time a rocket's sort of

performance bar will actually exceed the

physical size of the rocket.

This gives you a more direct sort of

comparison. This is -- the thrust that

is quite enormous, talking about liftoff

thrusts of 13,000 tons. So it's quite

tectonic when it takes off. But it is --

it is a fit on Pad 39A, which NASA has

been kind enough to allow us to use,

where -- because they somewhat oversized

the pad in doing Saturn 5 and, as a

result, we can actually do a much larger

vehicle on that same launch pad. And in

the future, we expect to add additional

launch locations, probably adding one on

the south coast of Texas.

But this gives you a sense of the

relative capability, if you can read

those.

But these vehicles have very different

purposes. This is really intended to

carry huge numbers of people, ultimately

millions of tons of cargo to Mars. So

you really need something quite large in

order to do that.

So talk about some of the key elements

of the interplanetary spaceship and

rocket booster. We decided to start off

the development with what we think are

probably the two most difficult elements

of the design. One is the Raptor engine.

And this is going to be the highest

chamber pressure engine of any kind ever

built and probably the highest

thrust-to-weight.

It's a full-flow staged combustion

engine which maximizes the theoretical

momentum that you can get out of a given

source fuel and oxidizer. We subcool the

oxygen and methane to densify it. So

compared to when -- propellants normally

use close to their boiling point in most

rockets. In our case, we actually build

the propellants close to their freezing

point. That can result in a density

improvement of up to around 10 to 12%,

which makes an enormous difference in

the actual results of the rocket. It

also makes the -- it gets rid of any

cavitation risk for the turbo pumps and

it makes it easier to feed a

high-pressure turbo pump if you have

very cold propellant.

Really one of the keys here, though, is

the vacuum version of Raptor having a

382-second ISP. This is really quite

critical too to the whole Mars mission.

And we can get to that number or at

least within a few seconds of that

number, ultimately maybe exceeding it

slightly.

So the rocket booster in many ways is

really a scaled-up version of the Falcon

9 booster. You will see a lot of

similarities, such as the grid fins.

Obviously clustering a lot of engines at

the base. And the big difference really

being that the primary structure is an

advanced form of carbon fiber as opposed

to limited lithium and that we use

autogenous pressurization and get rid of

the helium and the nitrogen.

So this uses 42 Raptor engines. It's a

lot of engines, but we use an I.N. on

the Falcon 9. And with Falcon Heavy,

which should launch early next year,

there's 27 engines on the base. So we've

got pretty good experience with having a

large number of engines. It also gives

us redundancies. So that if some of the

engines fail, you can still continue the

mission and be fine.

But the main job of the booster is to

accelerate the spaceship to around 8 1/2

thousand kilometers an hour. For those

that are less familiar with orbital

dynamics, really it's all about velocity

and not about height. So really that's

the job of the booster. The booster is

like the javelin thrower. You've got to

toss that javelin, which is the

spaceship.

In the case of other planets, though,

which have a gravity well which is not

as deep, so Mars, the moons of Jupiter,

conceivably maybe even one day Venus --

the -- well, Venus will be a little

trickier. But for most of the solar

system, you only need the spaceship. So

you don't need the booster if you have a

lower gravity well. No booster is needed

on the moon or Mars or any of the moons

of Jupiter or Pluto. You just need the

spaceship. The booster is just there for

heavy gravity wells.

And then we've also been able to

optimize the propellant needed for

boost-back and landing to get it down to

about 7% of the liftoff prop propellant

load. We think with some optimization

maybe we can get it down to about 6%.

And we also are now getting quite

comfortable with the accuracy of the

landing. If you have been watching the

Falcon 9 landings, you will see that

they are getting increasingly closer too

to the bull's-eye. And we think,

particularly with the addition of

additional -- with the addition of some

thrusters and maneuvering thrusters, we

can actually put the booster right back

on the launch stand. And then those fins

at the base are essentially centering

features to take out any minor position

mismatch at the launch site.

So that's what it looks like at the

base. So we think we only need to gimbal

or steer the center cluster of engines.

There's seven engines in the center

cluster. Those would be the ones that

move for steering the rocket, and the

other ones would be fixed in position,

which gives us the best concentration of

-- we can max out the number of engines

because we don't have to leave any room

for gimbaling or moving the engines.

And, like, this is all designed so that

you could actually lose multiple engines

even at liftoff or anywhere in flight

and continue the mission safely.

So for the spaceship itself, in the top,

we have the pressurized compartment. And

I'll show you a fly-through of that in a

moment. And then beneath that is the --

is where we would have the unpressurized

cargo, which would be really flat packed

in a very dense format.

And then below that is the liquid oxygen

tank. The liquid oxygen tank is probably

the hardest piece of this whole vehicle

because it's got to handle propellant at

the coldest level and the tanks

themselves actually form the air frame.

So the air frame structure and the tank

structure are combined, as it is in all

modern rockets. And in aircraft, for

example, the wing is really a fuel tank

in wing shape. So it has to take the

thrust loads of ascents, the loads of

reentry, and then it has to be

impermeable to gaseous oxygen, which is

tricky, and non-reactive to gaseous

oxygen. So that's the hardest piece of

the spaceship itself, which is actually

why we started on that element as well.

And I'll show you some pictures of that

later.

And then below the oxygen tank is the

fuel tank, and then the engines are

mounted directly to the thrust cone on

the base. And then there are six of the

vacuum -- the high efficiency vacuum

engines around the perimeter, and those

don't gimbal. And then there are three

of the sea-level versions of the engine

which do gimbal and provide the

steering. Although we can do some amount

of steering if you're in space with

differential thrust on the outside

engines.

The net effect is a cargo to Mars of up

to 450 tons, depending upon how many

refills you do with the tanker. And the

goal is at least 100 passengers per

ship. Although I think we will see that

number grow to 200 or more.

This chart is a little difficult to

interpret at first, but we decided to

put it there for people who wanted to

watch the video afterwards and sort of

take a closer look and analyze some of

the numbers.

The column on the left is probably

what's most relevant. And that gives you

the trip time. So depending upon which

Earth-Mars rendezvous you are aiming

for, the trip time at 6 kilometers per

second departure blast speed can be as

low as 80 days. And then over time, I

think we could probably improve that.

Ultimately, I suspect that you would see

Mars transit times of as little as 30

days in the more distant future.

It's fairly manageable, considering the

trips that people used to do in the old

days would routinely take sailing

voyages that would be six months or

more.

So on arrival, the heat shield

technology is extremely important. We

have been refining the heat shield

technology using our Dragon spacecraft.

We are now on version 3 of PICA, which

is the phenolic-impregnated carbon

ablator. And it's getting more and more

robust with each new version, with less

ablation, more resistance, less need for

refurbishment.

The heat shield is basically a giant

brake pad. How it's like how good can

you make that brake pad against the

extreme conditions and the cost of

refurbishment and make it so you could

have many flights with no refurbishment

at all.

This is a fly-through of the crew

compartment.

I just want to give you a sense of what

it would feel like to actually be in the

spaceship. I mean, in order to make it

appealing and increase that portion of

the Venn diagram of people who actually

want to go, it's got to be really fun

and exciting, and it can't feel cramped

or boring. But the crew compartment or

the occupant compartment is set up so

you can do zero-G things, you can float

around. It would be like movies,

ElectroPuls, cabins, a restaurant. It

will be, like, really fun to go. You are

going to have a great time.

(Laughter).

So the propellant plant on Mars, again,

this is one of those slides that I won't

go into in detail here, but people can

take that offline. The key point being

that the ingredients are there on Mars

to create a propellant plant with

relative ease, because the atmosphere is

primarily CO2 and there's water ice

almost everywhere. You've got the CO2

plus H2O to make methane CH4 and oxygen

O2 using the Sabatier reaction. The

trickiest thing really is the energy

source, which think we can do with a

large field of solar panels.

So then to give you a sense of the cost,

really the key is making this affordable

to almost anyone who wants to go. And we

think, based on this architecture, this

architecture, assuming optimization over

time, like the very first flights would

be fairly expensive. But the

architecture allows for a cost per

ticket of less than $200,000, maybe as

less -- maybe as little as $100,000 over

time, depending upon how much mass a

person takes. So we're right now

estimating about $140,000 per ton to the

trips to Mars. So if a person plus their

luggage is less than that, take into

account food consumption and life

support, then we think that the cost of

moving to Mars ultimately could drop

below $100,000.

So funding, talking about funding

sources. So we have steel underpants;

launch satellites; send cargo to space

station; Kickstarter, of course;

followed by profit. So obviously it's

going to be a challenge to fund this

whole endeavor. We do expect to generate

pretty decent net cash flow from

launching lots of satellites and serving

the space station for NASA, transferring

cargo to and from space station, and

then I know there's a lot of people in

the private sector who are interested in

helping fund a base on Mars and then

perhaps there will be interest on the

government sector side to also do that.

Ultimately, this is going to be a huge

public-private partnership. And I think

that's -- that's how the United States

was established, and many other

countries around the world, is a

public-private partnership. So I think

that's probably what occurs.

And right now we're just trying to make

as much progress as we can with the

resources that we have available and

just sort of keep moving both forward.

And, hopefully, I think as we -- as we

show that this is possible, that this

dream is real, not just a dream, it is

something that can be made real, I think

the support will snowball over time.

And I should say also the main reason

I'm personally accumulating assets is in

order to fund this. So I really don't

have any other motivation for personally

accumulating assets except to be able to

make the biggest contribution I can to

making life multiplanetary.

[APPLAUSE].

Time lines. Not the best at this sort of

thing. But just to show you where we

started off. In 2002, SpaceX basically

consisted of carpet and a mariachi band.

That was it. That's all of SpaceX in

2002. As you can see, I'm a dancing

machine. And, yeah, I believe in kicking

off celebratory events with mariachi

bands. I really like mariachi bands.

But that was what we started off with in

2002. And really, I mean, I thought we

had maybe a 10% chance of doing

anything, of even getting a rocket to

orbit, let alone getting beyond that and

taking Mars seriously. But I came to the

conclusion if there wasn't some new

entrant into the space arena with a

strong ideological motivation, then it

didn't seem like we were on a trajectory

to ever be a space-faring civilization

and be out there among the stars.

Because, you know, in '69 we were able

to go to the moon and the space shuttle

could get to low-Earth orbit, and then

after the space shuttle got retired. But

that trend line is down to zero.

So I think what a lot of people don't

appreciate is that technology does not

automatically improve. It only improves

if a lot of really strong engineering

talent is applied to the problem that it

improves. And there are many examples in

history where civilizations have reached

a certain technology level and then have

fallen well below that and then

recovered only millennia later.

So we go from 2002 where we're basically

-- we're clueless. And then with Falcon

1, the smallest useful little rocket

that we could think of which would

deliver a half a ton to orbit, and then

four years later we developed the -- we

built the first vehicle. So we dropped

the main engine, the upper stage engine,

the air frames, the fairing and the

launch system and had our first attempt

at launch in 2006, which failed. So that

lasted about 60 seconds, unfortunately.

But it's 2006, four years after

starting, is also when we actually got

our first NASA contract. And I just want

to say I'm incredibly grateful to NASA

for supporting SpaceX, you know, despite

the fact that our rocket crashed. Of

course, I'm NASA's biggest fan. So, you

know, thank you very much to the people

that had the faith to do that. Thank

you.

[APPLAUSE].

So then 2006, followed by a lot of

grief. And then, finally, the fourth

launch of Falcon 1 worked in 2008. And

we were really down to our last pennies.

In fact, I only thought I had enough

money for three launches and the first

three bloody failed. And we were able to

scrape together enough to just barely

make it and do a fourth launch. And

thank goodness that fourth launch

succeeded in 2008. That was a lot of

pain.

And then also at the end of 2008 is when

NASA awarded us the first major

operational contract, which was for

resupplying cargo to the space station

and bringing cargo back.

Then a couple years later we did the

first launch of Falcon 9, version 1. And

that had about a 10-ton-to-orbit

capability. So it was about 20 times the

capability of Falcon 1, and also was

assigned to carry our Dragon spacecraft.

Then 2010 is our first mission to the

space station. So we were able to finish

development of Dragon and dock with the

space station in 2010. so -- Sorry, 2010

is expendable Dragon -- expendable

Dragon. 2012 is when we delivered and

returned cargo from the space station.

2013 is when we first started doing boat

take-off and landing tests. And then

2014 is when we were able to have the

first orbital booster do a soft landing

in the ocean. The landing was soft. The

(inaudible) exploded. But the landing --

for seven seconds, it was good. And we

also improved the capability of the

vehicle from 10 tons to about 13 tons to

LEO.

And then 2015, last year, in December,

that was definitely one of the best

moments of my life when the rocket

booster came back and landed at Cape

Canaveral. That was really ...

[APPLAUSE].

Yeah. So that really showed that we

could bring an orbit-class booster back

from a very high velocity all the way to

the launch site and land it safely and

with almost no refurbishment required

for reflight. And if things go well,

we're hoping to refly one of the landed

boosters in a few months.

So, yeah -- and then 2016, we also

demonstrate landing on a ship. The

landing on the ship is important for the

very high-velocity geosynchronous

missions. And that's important for

reusability of Falcon 9 because about

roughly a quarter of our missions are

sort of servicing the space station. But

then there's a few other low-Earth-orbit

missions. But most of our missions,

probably 60% of our missions, are

commercial geo missions. So we've got to

do these high-velocity missions that

really need to land on a ship out to

sea. They don't have enough propellants

on board to boost back to the launch

site.

So looking into the future, next steps,

we were kind of intentionally a bit

fuzzy about this time line. But we were

going to try to make as much progress as

we can. Obviously, it's with a very

constrained budget. But we are going to

try to make as much progress as we can

on the elements of interplanetary

transport booster and spaceship, and

hopefully we'll be able to complete the

first development spaceship in maybe

about four years and start doing

suborbital flights with that.

In fact, it has enough capability that

you could maybe even go to orbit if you

limit the amount of cargo with the

spaceship. Well, you have to really --

you have to really strip it down. But in

tanker form, it could definitely get to

orbit. It can't get back, but it can get

to orbit.

Actually, I was thinking like maybe

there is some market for really fast

transport of stuff around the world,

provided we can land somewhere where

noise is not a super big deal, because

rockets are very noisy. But we could

transport cargo to anywhere on Earth in

45 minutes at the longest. So most

places on Earth would be maybe 20, 25

minutes. So maybe if we had a floating

platform off the coast of, you know, say

-- off the coast of New York, say 20, 30

miles out, could you go from New York to

Tokyo in, I don't know, 25 minutes;

across the Atlantic in ten minutes.

Really most of your time would be

getting to the ship, and then it would

be real quick after that.

So there's some intriguing possibilities

there. Although, we're not counting on

that.

And then development of the booster --

we actually think the booster part is

relatively straightforward because it's

-- it amounts to a scaling up of the

Falcon 9 booster. So there's -- we don't

see a lot of sort of show-stoppers

there. Yeah.

But then trying to put it all together

and make this actually work to Mars, if

things go super well, it might be kind

of in the ten-year time frame. But I

don't want to say that's when it will

occur. It's, like, this huge amount of

risk. It's going to cost a lot. Good

chance we don't succeed, but we're going

to do our best and try to make as much

progress as possible.

And we're going to try to send something

to Mars on every Mars rendezvous from

here on out. So Dragon 2, which is a

propulsive lander, we plan to send to

Mars in a couple years, and then do

probably another Dragon mission in 2020.

In fact, we want to establish a steady

cadence, that there's always a flight

leaving, like there's a train leaving

the station. With every Mars rendezvous

we will be sending a Dragon -- at least

a Dragon to Mars and ultimately the big

spaceship.

So if there's a lot of interest in

putting payloads on Dragon, you know you

can count on a ship that's going to

transport something on the order of at

least two or three tons of useful

payloads to the surface of Mars.

[APPLAUSE].

That's part of the reason we designed

Dragon 2, to be a propulsive lander. As

a propulsive lander, you can go anywhere

in the solar system. So you can go to

the moon. You can go to -- well,

anywhere, really. Whereas, if something

relies on parachutes or wings, then you

can pretty much only -- well, if it's

wings, you can pretty much only land on

Earth because you need a runway, and

most places don't have a runway. And

then anyplace that doesn't have a dense

atmosphere, you can't use parachutes.

But propulsive works anywhere. So the

Dragon should be capable of landing on

any solid or liquid surface in the solar

system.

I was real excited to see that the team

managed to do the -- all our Raptor

engine firing in advance of this

conference. I just want to say thanks to

the Raptor team for really working seven

days a week to try to get this done in

advance of the presentation, because I

really wanted to show that we've made

some hardware progress in this

direction. And the Raptor is a really

tricky engine. It's a lot trickier than

Merlin because it's a full-flow stage

combustion, much higher pressure.

I'm kind of amazed it didn't blow up on

the first firing. Fortunately, it was

good.

It's kind of interesting to see the mock

diamonds forming.

[APPLAUSE].

And part of the reason for making the

engine sort of small, Raptor, although

it has three times the thrust of a

Merlin is only about the same size as a

Merlin engine because it has three times

the operating pressure.

That means we can use a lot of the

production techniques that we've honed

with Merlin.

We are currently producing Merlin

engines at almost 300 per year. So we

understand how to make rocket engines in

volume.

Even though the Mars vehicle uses 32 on

the base and 9 on the upper stage, so we

are at 51 engines to make -- that's well

within our production capabilities for

Merlin. And this is a similarly sized

engine to Merlin except for the

expansion ratio. So we feel really

comfortable about being able to make

this engine in volume at a price that

doesn't break our budget.

We also wanted to make progress on the

primary structure. So, as I mentioned,

this is really a very difficult thing to

make, to make something out of carbon

fiber.

Even though carbon fiber has incredible

strength-to-weight, when you want to

then put super cold liquid oxygen or

liquid methane -- particularly liquid

oxygen -- in a tank, it's subject to

cracking and leaking, and it's very

difficult to make. Just the sheer scale

of it is also challenging, because

you've got to lay out the carbon fiber

in exactly the right way on a huge mold,

and you've got to cure that mold at

temperature.

And then -- it's just hard to make large

carbon fiber structures that could do

all of those things and carry incredible

loads. So that's the other thing we want

to focus on is the Raptor and then

building the first development tank for

the Mars spaceship.

So this is really the hardest part of

the spaceship. The other pieces we have

a pretty good handle on. But this was

the trickiest one. We wanted to tackle

it first.

You get a size for how big the tank is,

which is really quite big. Also big

congratulations to the team that worked

on that.

They were also working seven days a week

to try to get this done in advance of

the IAC. We managed to build the first

tank, and the initial tests with the

cryogenic propellants actually look

quite positive. We have not seen any

leaks or major issues.

This is what the tank looks like on the

inside. So you can get a real sense for

just how big this tank is. It's actually

completely smooth on the inside, but the

way that the carbon fiber plies lay out

and reflect the light makes it look

faceted.

So then what about beyond Mars?

So as we thought about the system -- and

the reason we call it a system, because

generally I don't like calling things

systems because everything is a system,

including your dog -- is that -- is that

it's actually more than a vehicle.

There's obviously the rocket booster,

the spaceship, the tanker, and the

propellant plant, the in situ propellant

production.

If you have all of those four elements,

you can actually go anywhere in the

solar system by planet hopping or moon

hopping. So by establishing a propellant

depot on -- in the asteroid belt or on

one of the moons of Jupiter, you can go

to -- you can make flights from Mars to

Jupiter no problem. In fact, even from

-- even without a propellant depot at

Mars, you can do a fly-by of Jupiter

without a propellant depot.

So -- but by establishing a propellant

depot, let's say, you know, Enceladus or

Europa or -- there's a few options, and

then doing another one on Titan,

Saturn's moon, and then perhaps another

one further out on Pluto or elsewhere in

the solar system, this system really

gives you freedom to go anywhere you

want in the greater solar system. So you

can actually travel out to the Kuiper

belt or the Earth cloud. I wouldn't

recommend this for interstellar

journeys, but this -- just this basic

system, provided we have filling

stations along the way, is -- means full

access to the entire greater solar

system.

[APPLAUSE].

